# roGFP_data_analysis
This is an example R script which was used to analyse data collected from bacteria which had been transformed with reduction-oxidation sensitive GFP (roGFP).
roGFP was used to monitor the intracellular redox state of bacterial gene deletion mutants (and complement strains) to different concentrations of a treatment (which is hydrogen peroxide in this example script).
This was completed to assess the roles of genes in response to the treatment.

See my thesis for further details 'Ozone-Mediated Control of Food Spoilage and Food-Borne Pathogens.'

The data which was collected from roGFP experiments was analysed as described by van der Heijden and Finlay, 2015. Briefly, background fluorescence signal was corrected for at each treatment condition by subtracting the fluorescence values measured from the pDSK519-expressing strain, from the fluorescence values measured from the pDSK-roGFP-expressing strain, at each time point. Then, the corrected fluorescence values which were measured at 405 nm excitation were divided by the corrected fluorescence values which were measured at 480 nm excitation at the same time point, to provide a ‘405/480 nm ratio’. Then in every individual assay, the data was normalised using 405/480 nm ratio measurements from the same bacterial strain in a maximum oxidised and maximum reduced state. A normalised 405/480 ratio of 1 was made to be equal to the maximum oxidised signal, and 0.1 was made to be equal to the maximum reduced signal.

Because of the experimental design of the roGFP assays for the deletion and complement strains, fluorescence measurements were able to be acquired from bacteria prior to the introduction of any treatments. The 405/480 nm ratio (which had been corrected for background fluorescence signal) was stable in wells prior to the addition of treatments, however its value occasionally, slightly varied between different wells which contained the same bacterium. To account for this, data from the last time-point before the addition of treatments, was used to calculate the difference between the 405/480 nm ratio in all wells, and the 405/480 nm ratio in the well which contained the same bacterium and would be exposed to M9 only. The difference that was calculated for each well was applied to every 405/480 nm ratio that was calculated post-treatment from the same well. The subsequent 405/480 nm ratios were then normalised using the maximum oxidised and maximum reduced signals.
